[Music]
around 65 million years ago the earth
turned faster
days were a half hour shorter and the
continents we know today
were beginning to take shape the
dinosaurs had been
almost wiped out the age of mammals was
dawning
and frogs the size of cats totally
normal
they weren't the first frogs or anything
frogs had been around for 180 million
years
over time not much about their body
changed except their
size enter beelzey bufo the baddest
meanest and biggest frog that
ever existed scientists found their
first bone sample in madagascar
it took them 15 years to piece together
the whole skeleton
step by step they put the frog skeleton
together
just like an ancient jigsaw puzzle when
they saw what they had found
a huge creature with a weird shield they
gave it its epic name
it's a mix of greek and latin and it
means armored frog from the abyss
this guy didn't hop from one lily pad to
another catching insects
nah that would be too tame it like to
live in dry places
and used a sit-and-wait hunting style it
blended in with its surroundings
waiting then bam it jumped out to grab
its lunch
it had a huge head an extremely wide
mouth
i know what that's like and powerful
jaws with huge
teeth it spent its days snacking on
lizards
mammals smaller frogs and maybe even
baby dinosaurs
even though it was the size of a beach
ball it still caught a lucky break
it lived in madagascar safe from the
large and dangerous dinosaurs that ruled
over
other parts of the world the armor on
its back was
almost like a turtle shell it was scary
and strong enough to protect itself from
smaller dinosaurs and crocodiles
another reason for that armor was that
it helped the frog survive in the dry
heat
it was able to dig down and hide
underground away from the burning hot
sun
the biggest frogs in madagascar these
days are just
regular-sized frogs a perfect
mid-morning snack for beelzey buffo
the largest frog on earth these days is
the goliath frog from west africa
it also grows to the size of a small cat
but it isn't related to this
awesome prehistoric beast now the most
famous frog on the planet these days
is none other than kermit but he's not
very big
and doesn't eat other frogs so we'll
move on
scientists discovered that blc bufo
actually does have some living relatives
just not in africa its big mouth gave it
its name
it's the pac-man frog from south america
even the biggest pac-man frogs are still
two to three times smaller than their
famous
ancestors they have little horns on
their heads
and they use the same sit and wait
hunting tactics
researchers use these frogs to figure
out the bite force of their prehistoric
relatives
they use two plates covered with leather
the frog bites down on the plates which
tells the researchers how strong their
bite is
long story short blz bufo had a bite
force of around
500 pounds not bad but a nile
crocodile's bite is
ten times stronger um probably safer to
avoid
either of those guys so how did these
pac-man frogs reach south america
well millions of years ago south america
antarctica
and africa were actually all smushed
together in kind of a continental pie
called pangaea frogs could have hopped
over via antarctica
looking for food or a cozy place to live
and it used to be a much warmer place
back then
this giant madagascar frog was unique
for sure
but it wasn't the only giant on earth if
it had been alive
earlier it would have probably made
friends with megan europe's
not to be confused with megan of sussex
it's the largest known insect to have
ever existed
it looked something like a dragonfly a
big one
its wings stretched about the length
from your shoulder to your fingertips
it was flying around way before flying
dinosaurs had come along
back then there was way more oxygen
around
that's why this dragonfly was able to
grow so big
another reason for its size there was no
one else flying around looking for a
tasty dragonfly snack
it had time to develop dangerous teeth
and figure out how to fly around like a
pro
megatherium americanum the great beast
from america
was the ancestor of today's sloths these
days
sloths get a bad rap for being super
slow
and kind of boring but the sloths of the
past
walked on two legs and lived on the
ground
this giant sloth was as tall as a
giraffe when standing on its back legs
as heavy as a hippo and looked kind of
like a bear
it had huge claws but was most likely a
vegetarian
early humans probably saw it roaming
around it only went extinct about ten
thousand years ago
giant armadillos were cruising around
back then too
they used to be the size of a beetle a
volkswagen beetle
just like today's armadillos they had a
huge tough shell made of bone
and was super heavy they looked pretty
scary but they were just harmless
vegetarians
regular prehistoric kangaroos had flat
faces
and forward pointing eyes they didn't
hop around at all
they weighed as much as a horse and were
so bulky
they could only walk around on two legs
they use their one large toe to move
quickly through woods and planes
looking for delicious leaves and shrubs
they might have even used their tail as
a fifth limb
other than that they have a lot in
common with modern kangaroos
but dyed protodon the largest kangaroo
type thing ever discovered
was about the size of a rhino it had
strong
furry legs just like a kangaroo but this
guy wasn't into jumping around all over
the place
it spent most of the time munching on
bushes and lounging by a lake or river
sounds good to me the biggest shark that
ever existed was
hmm oh yeah megalodon imagine a great
white shark now shorten the nose flatten
the jaw
and stretch out those pointy teeth this
thing was enormous
as long as a bowling lane and as heavy
as a blue whale
female megalodons were most likely twice
as large as male ones
even though it's long gone its food is
still around
giant sea turtles seals porpoises
smaller whales
delicious the megalodon probably had the
most powerful
bite of all time and it was so big it
needed plenty of food
every day scientists have found
megalodon fossils off the coast of
every continent except antarctica sharks
don't have regular bones except for
their sharp teeth
it's one of the reasons why they're so
fast and skillful in the water
giant scorpions used to rule over lakes
and rivers and even swam in the ocean
about 400 million years ago they had
claws the size of bowling pins
by comparing them to other scorpions
they calculated that this
giant sea scorpion used to be about
twice as big as a fridge
if you include its claws it most likely
grew so big for the same reason as these
monster dragonflies
they were much higher levels of oxygen
in the air back then
ancient saltwater crocodiles were almost
the size of a bus
and as heavy as an elephant they lived
about 130 million years ago
and were at the top of the food chain so
what did they eat
pretty much anything that got a little
too close
a few million years after the fall of
the dinosaurs
a new gigantic beast took over it was
the titanoboa
the largest snake the world had ever
seen it was as long as a telephone pole
and as heavy as a giraffe it behaved
like a present-day anaconda
spending most of its time in the water
munching on anything it could find
the largest lizard ever the great
grandpa of the famous komodo dragon
was called megalania it had super
dangerous teeth
equipped with some nasty venom that
makes it the largest venomous animal
ever some of the largest birds of all
time lived around 50 million years ago
think of an albatross with a seriously
dangerous mouth
their wingspan was around the size of
three nba players
now it wasn't easy finding out about
these huge birds and their lifestyles
researchers took fossils all the way
from antarctica to california
to compare them to bones of related
species
back then antarctica was much warmer
than today
it was covered with ferns and was home
to a bunch of animals
marsupials frogs ancient penguins
albatrosses
and even falcons